DESCRIPTION

This directory holds files for installing the 'sampdb' sample database and
tables, and checking the success of that load.

Simply run the queries in setup_sampdb.sql to create the database.  (If the
database exists this will erase the existing database and any changes made to
its data.)

Likewise run the check_sampdb.sql query to check the load.  This should report
six tables, each with a non-zero number of rows.


RUNNING THE QUERIES

Install Software
----------------
First, establish your ability to run SQL queries with some software tool.  The
course uses MySQL Workbench, but other tools (such as Microsoft Access and
Navicat) can work just as well.   These instructions walk through the process
for Workbench.  Other tools will follow a similar process, but for these you'll
have to figure out for yourself how to import and run a query in a file.  

If you wish to use MySQL Workbench, install it and open a database connection
within it.  Instructions for this are in README-SOFTWARE-INSTALLATION.txt in
the directory above this.  Please contact me if you have problems with that
installation and I will try to help.

Setup Database
--------------
Having opened a database connection, you should see a "SQL Editor" tab.  This
provides facilities for retrieving queries from a file, running those queries
and displaying those queries' results.

Query files can be opened from the menu bar, under File > Open SQL Script.
Navigate to select "setup_sampdb.sql" and click "Open".
-   A tab will appear within the window, with text for a lot of SQL commands
    (queries).
-   Run these queries (commands) from the menu bar: Query > Execute (All or
    Selection).  A subwindow should fill with a long list of command status
    reports.

These queries:
-   Create the database 'sampdb'
-   Create the tables within it
-   Load those tables with data

Checking Success
----------------
In the Schemas subwindow to the left of the query text subwindow, click the
little yin-yang refresh symbol.  The name 'sampdb' should appear on the list of
schemas, with a little expansion triangle to the left of the name.

You can check the database by running the query check_sampdb.sql.  Workbench
should display a subwindow with a table with columns "TABLE_NAME" and
"TABLE_ROWS".  There should be six rows, and the values in TABLE_ROWS should
all be positive integers.


CONTACT

If you have any problems or questions, please send me an email.

Gordon
gordon@practicalhorseshoeing.com




